Add transaction_name_groups config spec (#651)
elastic/apm: specs/agents/tracing-transaction-grouping.md

## Transaction Grouping

Even though agents should choose a transaction name that has a reasonable cardinality,
they can't always guarantee that.
For example,
when the auto-instrumentation of a job scheduling framework sets the transaction name to the name of the instrumented job,
the agent has no control over the job name itself.
While usually the job name is expected to have low cardinality,
users might set dynamic parts as part of the job name, such as a UUID.

In order to give users an option to group transactions whose name contain dynamic parts that don't require code changes,
agents MAY implement the following configuration option:

> ### `transaction_name_groups` configuration

Author: I considered making this option work generically on both transactions and spans. But in the majority of cases, you just want to group transactions. Applying the same wildcard matchers to spans, too would cause unnecessary overhead.

If we need such a feature for spans, too, we can consider adding another config options. Maybe even with the option to filter by span type/subtype.

With this option,
you can group transaction names that contain dynamic parts with a wildcard expression.
For example,
the pattern `GET /user/*/cart` would consolidate transactions,

> such as `GET /users/42/cart`, into a single group.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
such as `GET /users/42/cart` and `GET /users/73/cart` into a single transaction name `GET /users/*/cart`, hence reducing the transaction name cardinality.
```

|                |                                                                                          |
|----------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|

> | Type           | `List<`[`WildcardMatcher`](../../tests/agents/json-specs/wildcard_matcher_tests.json)`>` |

Author: I was also debating wether to make it possible to configure custom name for wildcard matcher, such as `GET /user/*/cart=show cart,/foo/*/bar=FooBar"`.

While it can be useful in some instances, it makes the configuration a little be more complex and verbose so I decided to only support a simple list of wildcard matchers where the resulting transaction name would be the literal matcher. In most cases, the wildcard matchers should also be nicely readable, unlike regex.

Another reason why regex is not supported is that the performance impact would be a lot higher.

| Default        | `<none>`                                                                                 |
| Dynamic        | `true`                                                                                   |
| Central config | `true`                                                                                   |

### When to apply the grouping

The grouping can be applied either every time the transaction name is set, or lazily, when the transaction name is read.

It's not sufficient to only apply the grouping when the transaction ends.
That's because when an error is tracked, the transaction name is copied to the error object.
See also [the error spec](error-tracking.md)

> Agents MUST also ensure that the grouping is applied before breakdown metrics are reported.

Reviewer: Can you elaborate on why do we have this requirement ? From what I remember the breakdown metrics are only captured for the spans and do not include their name.

## Transaction Grouping

Even though agents should choose a transaction name that has a reasonable cardinality,
they can't always guarantee that.
For example,
when the auto-instrumentation of a job scheduling framework sets the transaction name to the name of the instrumented job,
the agent has no control over the job name itself.
While usually the job name is expected to have low cardinality,
users might set dynamic parts as part of the job name, such as a UUID.

In order to give users an option to group transactions whose name contain dynamic parts that don't require code changes,
agents MAY implement the following configuration option:

### `transaction_name_groups` configuration

With this option,
you can group transaction names that contain dynamic parts with a wildcard expression.
For example,
the pattern `GET /user/*/cart` would consolidate transactions,
such as `GET /users/42/cart` and `GET /users/73/cart` into a single transaction name `GET /users/*/cart`, hence reducing the transaction name cardinality.

> The first matching expression wins, so make sure to place more specific expressions before more generic ones, for example: `GET /users/*/cart, GET /users/*`.

Author: This is specified in the following section:

> The grouping can be applied either every time the transaction name is set, or lazily, when the transaction name is read.

> If it's before does it mean that the agent should not use the selected route if the name was already built from one of the patterns in this configuration setting?

No.

Example:

```
transaction_name_groups = "GET /users/*"

transaction.setName("GET /users/42")
assert transaction.getName().equals("GET /users/*")

transaction.setName("UserController#getUser")
assert transaction.getName().equals("UserController#getUser")
```

> The first matching expression wins, so make sure to place more specific expressions before more generic ones, for example: `GET /users/*/cart, GET /users/*`.

Reviewer 2: I see.

> The grouping can be applied either every time the transaction name is set

Do you mean that agent that the grouping should be applied even if transaction name is set by explicit call to agent's public API?

> The first matching expression wins, so make sure to place more specific expressions before more generic ones, for example: `GET /users/*/cart, GET /users/*`.

Author: I don't see a good reason to make it more complex by avoiding to group transactions when the name is set via the API. 

The example was meant to illustrate how the agent might first set the URL based on the low level framework and then based on the high level framework.

|                |                                                                                          |
|----------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Type           | `List<`[`WildcardMatcher`](../../tests/agents/json-specs/wildcard_matcher_tests.json)`>` |
| Default        | `<none>`                                                                                 |
| Dynamic        | `true`                                                                                   |
| Central config | `true`                                                                                   |

> 

Author: ```suggestion

The `url_groups` option that the Java and PHP agent offered is deprecated in favor of `transaction_name_groups`.
```

@SergeyKleyman any objections to this?

Reviewer 2: @felixbarny No objections.
